Light from the Wisdom Sun A Sādhana of Noble Mañjuśrī, Supreme Deity of Deities 1. Taking Refuge and Arousing Bodhichitta 2. The Seven Branch Practice The Main Practice Conclusion 1. Offering and Praise 2. Prayer 3. Dissolution 4. Dedication of Merit
Namo! I take refuge in Mañjughoṣa,
Embodiment of Buddha, Dharma and Sangha.
So that all beings may attain enlightenment,
I shall exert myself in the practice of Mañjuśrī!
Plentiful gifts, both actual and imagined,
As an inexhaustible treasury, I offer.
Emanating bodies as numerous as atoms in the universe,
I offer homage, as devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
All wrongs, whether naturally harmful or transgressions,
I confess, my mind overflowing with regret and remorse.
Genuine wisdom that is beyond all concepts,
And ordinary merit too—in all forms of virtue, I rejoice!
In accordance with the capacities of beings,
Turn the wheel of Dharma, I implore you!
Great saints intent on passing into nirvana:
Stay until the very ends of existence, I pray!
All the virtue this represents, all that has been amassed,
I dedicate towards unsurpassed enlightenment.
In the space before me, amidst an expanse of rainbow light,
Upon seats of lotus and moon-disc, there instantly appears
The supreme and noble Mañjughoṣa,
With one face, two hands and a smiling expression.
He wields a sword in his right hand, and clasps a lotus with his left.
His two legs are crossed, and he in sambhogakāya form,
His body bedecked with the silk and jewel adornments.
Empty yet appearing, with a mandala of light,
He is encircled completely
By buddhas, bodhisattvas and accomplished adepts.
In his heart’s centre, upon a lunar disc, is a syllable Dhīḥ,
Radiating light, which dissolves into me.
Through this, may I gain all supreme and ordinary siddhis,
May the darkness of the two veils be dispelled entirely,
May the eight treasures of perfect eloquence,
Which are born of universal knowledge, be released,
And may I spontaneously fulfill my own and others’ aims.
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
The whole of appearance and existence,
Filled with clouds of offerings through samadhi
To you, Noble Mañjuśrī, I offer—
Through this, may I perfect the accumulation of merit!
Embodiment of all the enlightened activity
Of all the buddhas and their bodhisattva heirs
Brave warrior Mañjuśrī, to you
With the utmost faith and devotion, I offer homage and praise!
From now on, throughout all my lives,
May you always care for and protect me,
And grant me the wisdom of a lord of speech
Unhindered in explanation, debate and composition.
From the very beginning, as a reflection of dependent origination,
Arisen, illusory body of wisdom,
Beyond all conceptual elaboration. Mañjuśrī, you
Dissolve into the expanse of unaltered suchness.
May whatever sources of virtue there may be
Arising through this practice
All be dedicated so that beings everywhere
May attain the supreme status of the warrior Mañjuśrī.